---
layout: post
title: "Datadog"
date: 2017-10-11 17:25:38 -0700
comments: true
categories: 
- Performance
- Security
---

This post summarizes what I learnt about Datadog, a third-party monitoring service.

<!--more-->

### Features

* Presents multiple dashboards to keep an eye on how well everything's running
* Parsing of logs from Heroku, JMX
* Using analytics from Datadog to help build self-healing systems
* Agent-based monitoring, arbitrary configuration of log sources
  * dogstatsd - Aggregation of metrics and stats
  * Log collector. Forwarded to Datadog's back-end
* Can execute specific commands to collect information, health checking, ...
* Events and metrics can be tagged arbitrary for organization's sake
* Usage rate: Roughly 4.5m metrics collected/hour. Roughly 1250 metrics/second
* Integrations for other products (Slack, Pagerduty, et al).
* Monitors are built with a visual construction kit: 
  * Dropdowns, pick-and-place.
  * Graphs, charts
  * Timeboards and Screenboards
  * Averages, time between events, events/unit of time, above/below (and/or equal to)
  * How to treat those metrics (sums, differences, averages)
  * Types of alerts
* Basic widgets are used to construct the dashboards. Each widget is configurable.
* Basic health checks (OK/NOT OKAY) are possible.
* Application tracing - Python lib that you can include in your application, and it adds native Datadog monitoring hooks.

### Notable shortcomings

* Only in us-east-1 region.
* Some reliability issues (could be AWS, could be them). They're working on it.
* If an app doesn't come up, it doesn't send an event, so they don't know that something went wrong.
* Because all teams are generating events, it's hard to figure out what's actually going on. Sometimes the tags don't make sense...
