---
layout: post
title: "Java 9"
date: 2017-12-06 12:11:16 -0800
comments: true
categories: 
- Java
---

JDK 9 was released in September and includes many changes to the Java platform. 
The biggest is the Java Platform Module System (often referred to as Project Jigsaw). 
<!--more-->
This new JPMS breaks up the existing rt.jar file into 97 modules (28 of them are SE) but also encapsulates internal APIs, such as sun.misc.Unsafe that have previously been available to developers.
This note summarizes some intersting points from a guest speaker about the new JDK 9 and other intersting changes in Java Community.

### JDK 9 Features

Java Platform Module System 

* Initially, leave everything on the classpath.
* Anything on the classpath is in the unamed module
  * All packages are exported
  * The unamed module depends on all modules
* Migrate to modules as required 

`--illegal-access` option is the Kill Switch to turn off encapsulation:

* permit: Warning for first use of an encapsulated API
* warn: Warning for every use
* debug: Warning and stack trace for every use
* deny: No access.

`--add-exports` option allows direct access to encapsulated APIs.
`--add-opens` option allows reflective access to encapulated APIs.

`jlink`: The Java Linker (JEP 282).
The implication of `jlink` is that the slogan "Write once, run anywhere" might not be true anymore.
`jlink` generated runtime may not include all Java SE modules.
It is still a conformant Java implementation.

### Java Development Changes

OpenJDK have a new release model: more agile, every six months.
Features are included when ready instead of targeted for specific release when started.

JDK Version Numbering: new scheme introduced (JEP 223).

* JDK MAJOR.MINOR.SECURITY
* Semantic versioning

However, there is a new scheme proposed in JEP 322: FEATURE.INTERIM.UPDATE.PATCH.

Availability of JDK updates: Oracle is switching to LTS model.

* JDK 8 is a LTS release. 
  * It will have updates for more than 3 years.
* JDK 9 is a feature release. 
  * Public updates are only available until next feature release.

### Deprecated features in JDK 9

* Applets as a deployment mechanism
* CMS garbage collector
* Java policy tool, jconsole, Doclet API
* No more 32-bit Oracle JDK binaries. No more ARM binaries.
  * Only Mac, Windows, Linux, SPARC supported. All 64-bit.
